# Framework-model-for-identifying-detecting-and-reporting-cybersecurity-on-websites

The main framework is to create an exhaustive web vulnerability detection system that would contribute to the unification of DAST and ML methodologies. The DAST section is coded in Python, and the script that does the scanning for known web applications vulnerabilities is written as well. These scripts work using the DAST method to crawl through the given website, access its structure, and detect security gaps like cross-site scripting (XSS) and SQL Injection by performing payload injection and interpreting the responses to identify deficiencies.
Apart from that, the software uses multithreading making it possible to crawl and check pages simultaneously, which in turn boosts performance.
The ML part of the system is further capable of finding unknown or zero-day exploits through Random Forest classifier trained on a dataset of firewall logs. The logs in these networks are deemed significant traffic data which are extracted out using TF-IDF vectorization for the purpose of determining the relevant features. The classifier is one of the parts which is trained to distinguish whether a particular operation is a normal routine or an intentionally malicious one. The
classifier introduced in the module is capable of classifying the likelihood of a vulnerability by
identifying the features (which are the patterns learned from the training data) of threats. In the prediction phase, the system exploits previous knowledge and current logged data to predictvulnerabilities deployed in web apps.
The platform is capable of coupling a DAST system with the ML techniques in a recommended integrated way to create an all-embracing web security context. DAST is introduced here as an advancement to the passive scanning mechanism that aims to detect known vulnerabilities and the ML technique is boosting the threats detection capability because it is identifying patterns identical to the unknown threats.
